h1. SelectiveProtection

h2. Overview

While attr_proctected and attr_accessible are great for securing your Rails app, in some cases a bit more flexibility is desired. SelectiveProtection enables you to selectively allow mass assignment of normally protected attributes.


h2. Requirements

My ProxyBlock gem:
<pre><code>gem install rxcfc-proxy_block</code></pre>

h2. Usage

h3. Example Classes

_Note that no special setup is required_

<pre><code>
  class BlacklistProtected < ActiveRecord::Base
    attr_accessor :dangerous, :safe
    attr_protected :dangerous
  end
  
  class WhitelistProtected < ActiveRecord::Base
    attr_accessor :dangerous, :safe
    attr_accessible :safe
  end
</code></pre>

  
h3. Standard behavior is maintained

<pre><code>
  bp = BlacklistProtected.new(:dangerous => "dangerous")
  bp.dangerous # => nil

  wp = WhitelistProtected.new(:dangerous => "dangerous")
  wp.dangerous # => nil
</code></pre>


h3. Proxy Form
<pre><code>
  bp = BlacklistProtected.with_accessible(:dangerous).new(:dangerous => "dangerous")
  bp.dangerous # => "dangerous"

  wp = WhitelistProtected.with_accessible(:dangerous).new(:dangerous => "dangerous")
  wp.dangerous # => "dangerous"
</code></pre>


h3. Block Form

<pre><code>
  BlacklistProtected.with_accessible(:dangerous) do
    bp = BlacklistProtected.new(:dangerous => "dangerous")
    bp.dangerous # => "dangerous"
  end
  
  WhitelistProtected.with_accessible(:dangerous) do
    wp = WhitelistProtected.new(:dangerous => "dangerous")
    wp.dangerous # => "dangerous"
  end
</code></pre>

h3. Associations

<pre><code>
  class Parent < ActiveRecord::Base
    has_many :children
  end

  class Child < ActiveRecord::Base
    belongs_to :parent
    attr_protected :dangerous
  end

  p = Parent.new
  
  c1 = p.children.with_accessible(:dangerous) { p.children.build(:dangerous => "dangerous") }
  c1.dangerous # => "dangerous"
  
  c2 = p.children.with_accessible(:dangerous).build(:dangerous => "dangerous")
  c2.dangerous # => "dangerous"
</code></pre>

h3. Allow All Attributes

Passing :all as the only parameter will allow all attributes to be mass assigned.

h2. Credits

*Author:* Peter Wagenet (http://in.finitu.de)
*Website:* http://github.com/rxcfc/selective_protection